About the job
Sr. Engineer: AI/ML 

Location: Boston, MA- Onsite

Duration - Full Time

About BigRio:
BigRio is a remote-based, technology consulting firm with headquarters in Boston, MA. We deliver solutions ranging from: custom development, software implementation, data analytics, and machine learning/AI integrations. We are a one-stop shop that attracts clients from a variety of industries because of our proven ability to deliver cutting-edge and cost-conscious software solutions.
With extensive domain knowledge, BigRio has teams of data architects, data engineers, software engineers, web developers, and consultants who deliver best-in-class solutions across a variety of verticals. Our diverse industry exposure equips us with invaluable tools, tricks, and techniques to tackle complex software and data challenges.

About Work:
Strong background in Machine Learning applied to complex spatial computing, image and video processing, and visualization applications. Individual contributor and work on the design, development, and implementation of machine learning models for radar-based health and safety platforms. Collaborative team environment to help envision, architect, and prioritize the platform’s artificial intelligence features. Experience with digital signal processing experience and/or radar data processing applications will be helpful.

Key Technical Requirements:
Proven industry experience as an AI/ML Engineer, with a focus on radar and RF signals, video and image processing, or classification.
Proficiency in implementing signal processing algorithms using programming languages such as Python, MATLAB, or C/C++
Fluency in Python, machine learning frameworks (Pytorch, Tensorflow, etc.), data science tools (NumPy/Scikit-learn), and cloud services (Google Cloud Platform).
Extensive practical knowledge of Machine Learning techniques for images, deep learning network architectures (CNNs, GANs, etc.), regularization, loss functions, optimization strategies, etc.
Experience with building and orchestrating multiple models using parallel and sequential architectures, tailoring the approach to the specific requirements and constraints of the problem at hand.
Solid understanding of software development methodologies and version control systems.
Experience with real-time signal processing, DSP platforms, or embedded systems.
Strong knowledge of digital signal processing theory and techniques, including filtering, modulation, demodulation, and spectral analysis.
Experience with one or more of the following: radar-to-image projection, image segmentation, video object detection, target detection in radar signal.
Expertise in radar signal processing and object detection from RF signals, including algorithms such as CFAR, SVD, and other radar signal processing techniques.
Experience implementing and optimizing data augmentation techniques (e.g., image flipping, rotation, scaling, filtering, text synonym replacement, SMOTE) to enhance model performance and robustness.

Education and Experience:
A Master's or PhD degree in Artificial Intelligence, Mathematics, Statistics, Physics, Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering, or a related field, or equivalent work experience.
10+ years of relevant experience in machine learning and data science, with healthcare AI a plus.
Proven track record of leading and scaling high-performing data science and machine learning teams and successfully delivering complex, impactful projects.
Real-world work experience in relevant roles in a commercial setting.
Ideally, full life cycle experience with a consumer or patient product that has shipped and achieved meaningful commercial success.
Preference for candidates with experience in a startup or fast-paced environment, as well as exposure to ambient sensing and sensor fusion technologies.
